Add the debugging docs for the NuGet products (#3369)
NuGet/NuGet.Client: docs/debugging.md

### Code pointers for NuGet.exe

* The entry point for all commands is [Program.cs](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.CommandLine/Program.cs) in the same project.
* Each command in NuGet.exe has it's own class. For example if you want to debug restore, you can set a breakpoint in [RestoreCommand.cs](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.CommandLine/Commands/RestoreCommand.cs). Note that there are multiple instances of the RestoreCommand type.

## Debugging and testing NuGet in Visual Studio

Testing the NuGet Visual Studio functionality is equally as easy as testing NuGet.exe.
The start-up project is [NuGet.VisualStudio.Client](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.VisualStudio.Client/NuGet.VisualStudio.Client.csproj). Starting this will launch the [experimental instance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/extensibility/the-experimental-instance) of Visual Studio.

### Testing the build of NuGet in Visual Studio

NuGet functions as an extension on top of Visual Studio.
However NuGet is also considered a system component which means it cannot be managed in the same way as other Visual Studio extensions. However, it is possible to install a locally built NuGet in a Visual Studio instance.

> #### Installing the NuGet extension in Visual Studio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Installing a custom version of the NuGet extension in Visual Studio
```

Author: This requires some link changes. I'll make sure they are addressed

The build generates a vsix artifact in the `artifacts/VS15/` folder. From the [Developer Command Prompt for VS](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/tools/developer-command-prompt-for-vs) run the `VSIXInstaller.exe` with the vsix path as the first argument. Alternatively VS configures the default action for VSIX files.

> #### Uninstalling the NuGet extension from Visual Studio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Uninstalling a custom version of the NuGet extension from Visual Studio
```

> #### Uninstalling the NuGet extension from Visual Studio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Downgrading the NuGet extension from Visual Studio
```

> Given that NuGet is a system component, you cannot use the extensions manager in Visual Studio. Go back to your [Developer Command Prompt for VS](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/tools/developer-command-prompt-for-vs) and run `VSIXInstaller.exe /d:NuGet.72c5d240-f742-48d4-a0f1-7016671e405b`.

Reviewer: Need the keyword "downgrade" in here somehow...

```suggestion
Given that NuGet is a system component, you cannot use the extensions manager in Visual Studio to downgrade your NuGet extension to its original version. Go back to your [Developer Command Prompt for VS](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/tools/developer-command-prompt-for-vs) and run `VSIXInstaller.exe /d:NuGet.72c5d240-f742-48d4-a0f1-7016671e405b`.
```

#### NuGet in Visual Studio assembly location

> Each Visual Studio instance has it's own root install directory. Relative to the root directory, the NuGet assemblies can be are in `Common7/IDE/CommonExtensions/Microsoft/NuGet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Visual Studio instance has its own root install directory. Relative to the root directory, the NuGet assemblies can be found in `Common7/IDE/CommonExtensions/Microsoft/NuGet`.
```

### Code pointers for NuGet in Visual Studio

> Visual Studio extensibility has the concept of VSPackages. This allows extensions to add capabilities to the UI and all of the flows within the IDE. The NuGet client itself ships 2 packages, which can be considered the entry points for the whole component, You wouldn’t normally debug the initialization of these packages of course, but they author the whole NuGet in VS experience in one or another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visual Studio extensibility has the concept of VSPackages. This allows extensions to add capabilities to the UI and all of the flows within the IDE. The NuGet client itself ships 2 packages, which can be considered the entry points for the whole component. You wouldn’t normally debug the initialization of these packages of course, but they author the whole NuGet in VS experience in one or another.
```

The 2 packages in question are:

* [NuGetPackage](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.Tools/NuGetPackage.cs) - enables most of the UI NuGet functionality in Visual Studio.
* [RestoreManagerPackage](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.SolutionRestoreManager/RestoreManagerPackage.cs) - enables the restore functionality in Visual Studio.

The NuGet in Visual Studio experience is scattered across many assemblies as can be seen from the [project overview](project-overview.md).
Some of the other points are summarized below:

> * Restore operations - [SolutionRestoreWorker](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.SolutionRestoreManager/SolutionRestoreWorker.cs) - All Visual Studio restores start here. Currently only a solution restore is possible. Depending on the project package management style there are different code paths to look into.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Restore operations - [SolutionRestoreWorker](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.SolutionRestoreManager/SolutionRestoreWorker.cs) - All Visual Studio restores start here. Currently, only a solution restore is possible. Depending on the project package management style, there are different code paths to look into.
```

> * Package Manager UI operations - All menu items are defined the [NuGetTools.vsct](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.Tools/NuGetTools.vsct). The main control for the Package Manager UI is [PackageManagerControl](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.PackageManagement.UI/Xamls/PackageManagerControl.xaml.cs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Package Manager UI operations - VS context menu integration is defined in [NuGetTools.vsct](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.Tools/NuGetTools.vsct). The main control for the Package Manager UI is [PackageManagerControl](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.PackageManagement.UI/Xamls/PackageManagerControl.xaml.cs).
```

> * Package Manager Console operations - The powershell cmdlets are defined in the [NuGet.PackageManagement.Cmdlets](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.PackageManagement.PowerShellCmdlets/NuGet.PackageManagement.PowerShellCmdlets.csproj) project, more specifically in the [cmdlets](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.PackageManagement.PowerShellCmdlets/Cmdlets) folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Package Manager Console operations - The PowerShell cmdlets are defined in the [NuGet.PackageManagement.Cmdlets](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.PackageManagement.PowerShellCmdlets/NuGet.PackageManagement.PowerShellCmdlets.csproj) project, more specifically in the [cmdlets](../src/NuGet.Clients/NuGet.PackageManagement.PowerShellCmdlets/Cmdlets) folder.
```

### Testing and debugging restore in MSBuild

Given that all the MSBuild functionality comes with Visual Studio, one approach is to install the extension generated from the build, as described in [Testing the build of NuGet in Visual Studio](testing-the-build-of-nuget-in-visual-studio).

Alternatively, the NuGet.targets are just wired into the build in a certain way and that can be replicated without a complete installation of the extension through the powershell helper functions as shown in the [PowerShell helper scripts](../scripts/nuget-debug-helpers.ps1). Examples can be found in the linked scripts.

If you are testing a debug build, to debug just set the environment variable defined in [RestoreTask](../src/NuGet.Core/NuGet.Build.Tasks/RestoreTask.cs), currently `DEBUG_RESTORE_TASK`.

### Testing and debugging pack in MSBuild

The naive approach here is to install the package to the project and just run `msbuild -t:pack` on it.

> Alternatively, if you are testing on SDK based projects, the NuGet.Build.Tasks.Pack.targets are just wired into the build in a certain way and that can be replicated without a complete installation of the extension through the powershell helper functions as shown in the [PowerShell helper scripts](../scripts/nuget-debug-helpers.ps1). Examples can be found in the linked scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if you are testing on SDK based projects, the NuGet.Build.Tasks.Pack.targets are just wired into the build in a certain way and that can be replicated without a complete installation of the extension through the PowerShell helper functions as shown in the [PowerShell helper scripts](../scripts/nuget-debug-helpers.ps1). Examples can be found in the linked scripts.
```

* Pack - The pack SDK functionality is available in all SDK based projects.
* NuGet Commandline Xplat Functionality - An exe that's bundled with dotnet.exe and dotnet.exe shells out to our app by forwarding a set of arguments. Some of the scenarios enabled by this integration are: add/remove/list package, push, locals.

3 different integration, 3 different entry points and as such 3 different debugging approaches.

### Debugging restore task in dotnet.exe

dotnet.exe restore works the exact same way `msbuild -t:restore` works. The one difference is that .NET Core based MSBuild cannot build the same project types as .NET Framework MSBuild can.
Most of the tips in [Testing and debugging restore in MSBuild](testing-and-debugging-restore-in-msbuild) still apply.

If you want to test dotnet.exe explicitly, refer to [Patching dotnet.exe to test the NuGet functionality](patching-dotnet-exe-to-test-the-nuget-functionality).

### Debugging pack task in dotnet.exe

dotnet.exe pack works the exact same way `msbuild -t:pack` works. The added benefit is that it is always available in all SDK based projects, which is what dotnet.exe supports.

> Most of tips in [Testing and debugging pack in MSBuild](testing-and-debugging-pack-in-msbuild) still apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the tips in [Testing and debugging pack in MSBuild](testing-and-debugging-pack-in-msbuild) still apply.
```

### Debugging NuGet Command Xplat Functionality (add-package/remove-package/list package)

Functionality such as `dotnet.exe add package` or `dotnet list package`, is implemented in [NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat](../src\NuGet.Core\NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat\NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat.csproj).
There are 2 ways to debug this:

* Given that [NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat](../src\NuGet.Core\NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat\NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat.csproj) is an exe, you can set it as the startup project and run it as you would any other command line project in Visual Studio. Note that some commands list arguments in a different order to the dotnet cli.

* Patch the SDK by referring to [Patching dotnet.exe to test the NuGet functionality](patching-dotnet-exe-to-test-the-nuget-functionality).

After you have patched it, refer to the environment variable in the [NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat](../src\NuGet.Core\NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat\NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat.csproj) entry point.

> If you are testing a debug build, to debug just set the environment variable defined in [Program.cs](../src\NuGet.Core\NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat\NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat.csproj), currentl DEBUG_NUGET_XPLAT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are testing a debug build, to debug just set the environment variable defined in [Program.cs](../src\NuGet.Core\NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat\NuGet.CommandLine.XPlat.csproj), currently, `DEBUG_NUGET_XPLAT`.
```

### Patching dotnet.exe to test the NuGet functionality

There are 2 ways to patch dotnet.exe with the latest NuGet bits.

> * Refer to the [PowerShell helper scripts](../scripts/nuget-debug-helpers.ps1) for a helper script to patch a zip of the SDK that can acquired from the [dotnet installer](https://github.com/dotnet/installer/blob/master/README.md#installers-and-binaries). Note that when running you [might](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/master/docs/project/dogfooding.md) need to disable MULTI_LEVEL_LOOKUP. dotnet.exe has a special logic for the discovering the SDK, and it's possible it's discovering a different SDK from the one you patched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Refer to the [PowerShell helper scripts](../scripts/nuget-debug-helpers.ps1) for a helper script to patch a zip of the SDK that can be acquired from the [dotnet installer](https://github.com/dotnet/installer/blob/master/README.md#installers-and-binaries). Note that when running you [might](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/master/docs/project/dogfooding.md) need to disable MULTI_LEVEL_LOOKUP. dotnet.exe has a special logic for the discovering the SDK, and it's possible it's discovering a different SDK from the one you patched.
```
